=pod

^ Perl and LWP ^

=head1 G.8. The Gory Details

For sake of clarity of explanation, I had to oversimplify some of the
facts about objects. Here's a few of the gorier details:

=over

=item *

Every example I gave of a constructor was a class method. But object
methods can be constructors, too, if the class was written to work that
way: C<$new> C<=> C<$old-E<gt>copy>, C<$node_y =
$node_x-E<gt>new_subnode>, or the like.

=item *

I've given the impression that there's two kinds of methods: object
methods and class methods. In fact, the same method can be both,
because it's not the kind of method it is, but the kind of calls it's
written to acceptE<mdash>calls that pass an object, or calls that pass
a class name.

=item *

The term "object value" isn't something you'll find used much anywhere
else. It's just my shorthand for what would properly be called an
"object reference" or "reference to a blessed item." In fact, people
usually say "object" when they properly mean a reference to that
object.

=item *

I mentioned creating objects with I<con>structors, but I didn't mention
destroying them with I<de>structorE<mdash>a destructor is a kind of
method that you call to tidy up the object once you're done with it,
and want it to neatly go away (close connections, delete temporary
files, free up memory, etc.). But because of the way Perl handles
memory, most modules won't require the user to know about destructors.

=item *

I said that class method syntax has to have the class name, as in
C<$session> C<=> C<Net::FTP-E<gt>new($host)>. Actually, you can instead
use any expression that returns a class name: C<$ftp_class> C<=>
C<'Net::FTP';> C<$session> C<=> C<$ftp_class-E<gt>new($host)>.
Moreover, instead of the method name for object- or class-method calls,
you can use a scalar holding the method name:
C<$foo-E<gt>$method($host)>. But, in practice, these syntaxes are
rarely useful.

=back

And finally, to learn about objects from the perspective of writing
your own classes, see the I<perltoot> documentation, or Damian Conway's
exhaustive and clear book I<Object Oriented Perl> (Manning
Publications, 1999).

=cut

#Pod::HTML2Pod conversion notes:
#From file appg_08.htm
# 3264 bytes of input
#Sun Nov 11 18:10:04 2012 root
# No a_name switch not specified, so will not try to render <a name='...'>
# Will try to render <a href='...'>
# Untranslatable link: "./index.html"
