=pod

^ Perl and LWP ^

=head1 0.7. Acknowledgments

It takes a mere village to raise a puny human child, but it took a
whole globe-girdling Perl cabal to get this book done! These are the
readers who, as a personal favor to me, took the time to read and
greatly improve my first sketchy manuscript, each in their own
particular, helpful, and careful ways: Gisle Aas, David H. Adler, Tim
Allwine, Elaine Ashton, Gene Boggs, Gavin Estey, Scott Francis, Joe
Johnston, Kevin Healy, Conrad Heiney, David Huggins-Daines, Samy
Kamkar, Joe Kline, Yossef Mendelssohn, Abhijit Menon-Sen, Brad Murray,
David Ondrik, Clinton Pierce, Robert Spier, Andrew Stanley, Dennis
Taylor, Martin Thurn, and Glenn Wood.

I'm also especially thankful to Elaine Ashton for doing a last-minute
review not just of this manuscript's prose, but of all the code blocks.
If not for her eagle eye, you'd be scratching your head over variables
and subroutines magically renaming themselves all over the place!

I am grateful to Conrad Heiney for suggesting the California Department
of Motor Vehicles as an example for Chapter 5, "Forms". Thanks also to
Mark-Jason Dominus for suggesting the ABEBooks web site as an example
in that same chapter. Many thanks to Gisle Aas, Michael A. Chase, and
Martijn Koster for making LWP such a reliable and indispensable
addition to every programmer's toolkit.

And last but not least, thanks to the people at O'Reilly who intrepidly
pushed for this book to get done when I really just wanted to stay in
bed and play Tetris. The chief author-wrangler is my editor, Nat
Torkington, but I'm much obliged also to the many other
under-appreciated O'Reilly people who conspired to get this book from
my hands to yours: Jon Orwant (of I<Perl Journal> fame even before he
got to O'Reilly), Neil Walls (who slaved over Appendix F, "ASCII Table"
so you can see what a C<&perp;> looks like!), sage editor Linda Mui,
Betsy Waliszewski in marketing, and in the production department,
Linley Dolby, the book's production editor and copyeditor and Rob
Romano, the book's illustrator.

=cut

#Pod::HTML2Pod conversion notes:
#From file ch00_07.htm
# 2945 bytes of input
#Sun Nov 11 18:10:04 2012 root
# No a_name switch not specified, so will not try to render <a name='...'>
# Will try to render <a href='...'>
# Untranslatable link: "./index.html"
# Untranslatable link: "ch05_01.htm"
# Untranslatable link: "appf_01.htm"
