=pod

^ Perl and LWP ^

=head1 1.2. History of LWP

The following history of LWP was written by Gisle Aas, one of the
creators of LWP and its current maintainer.

E<lchevron>

=over

The libwww-perl project was started at the very first WWW conference
held in Geneva in 1994. At the conference, Martijn Koster met Roy
Fielding who was presenting the work he had done on MOMspider.
MOMspider was a Perl program that traversed the Web looking for broken
links and built an index of the documents and links discovered. Martijn
suggested turning the reusable components of this program into a
library. The result was the libwww-perl library for Perl 4 that Roy
maintained.

Later the same year, Larry Wall made the first "stable" release of Perl
5 available. It was obvious that the module system and object-oriented
features that the new version of Perl provided make Roy's library even
better. At one point, both Martijn and myself had made our own separate
modifications of libwww-perl. We joined forces, merged our designs, and
made several alpha releases. Unfortunately, Martijn ended up in
disagreement with his employer about the intellectual property rights
of work done outside hours. To safeguard the code's continued
availability to the Perl community, he asked me to take over
maintenance of it.

The LWP:: module namespace was introduced by Martijn in one of the
early alpha releases. This name choice was lively discussed on the
libwww mailing list. It was soon pointed out that this name could be
confused with what certain implementations of threads called
themselves, but no better name alternatives emerged. In the last
message on this matter, Martijn concluded, "OK, so we all agree LWP
stinks :-)." The name stuck and has established itself.

If you search for "LWP" on Google today, you have to go to 30th
position before you find a link about threads.

In May 1996, we made the first non-beta release of libwww-perl for Perl
5. It was called release 5.00 because it was for Perl 5. This made some
room for Roy to maintain libwww-perl for Perl 4, called
libwww-perl-0.40. Martijn continued to contribute but was unfortunately
"rolled over by the Java train."

In 1997-98, I tried to redesign LWP around the concept of an event loop
under the name LWPng. This allowed many nice things: multiple requests
could be handled in parallel and on the same connection, requests could
be pipelined to improve round-trip time, and HTTP/1.1 was actually
supported. But the tuits to finish it up never came, so this branch
must by now be regarded as dead. I still hope some brave soul shows up
and decides to bring it back to life.

1998 was also the year that the HTML:: modules were unbundled from the
core LWP distribution and the year after Sean M. Burke showed up and
took over maintenance of the HTML-Tree distribution, actually making it
handle all the real-world HTML that you will find. I had kind of given
up on dealing with all the strange HTML that the web ecology had let
develop. Sean had enough dedication to make sense of it.

Today LWP is in strict maintenance mode with a much slower release
cycle. The code base seems to be quite solid and capable of doing what
most people expect it to.

=back

E<rchevron>

=cut

#Pod::HTML2Pod conversion notes:
#From file ch01_02.htm
# 4212 bytes of input
#Sun Nov 11 18:10:04 2012 root
# No a_name switch not specified, so will not try to render <a name='...'>
# Will try to render <a href='...'>
# Untranslatable link: "./index.html"
