=pod

^ Perl and LWP ^

=head1 Colophon

click to enlarge the blesboks. CLICK THEM!

Our look is the result of reader comments, our own experimentation, and
feedback from distribution channels. Distinctive covers complement our
distinctive approach to technical topics, breathing personality and
life into potentially dry subjects.

The animals on the cover of I<Perl and LWP> are blesboks
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blesbok). Blesboks are African antelopes
related to the hartebeest. These grazing animals, native to Africa's
grasslands are extinct in the wild but preserved in farms and parks.

Blesboks have slender, horselike bodies that are shorter than four feet
at the shoulder. They are deep red, with white patches on their faces
and rumps. A white blaze extends from between a blesbok's horns to the
end of its nose, broken only by a brown band above the eyes. The
blesbok's horns sweep back, up, and inward. Both male and female
blesboks have horns, though the males' are thicker.

Blesboks are diurnal, most active in the morning and evening. They
sleep in the shade during the hottest part of the day, as they are very
susceptible to the heat. They travel from place to place in long
single-file lines, leaving distinct paths. Their life span is about 13
years.

Linley Dolby was the production editor and copyeditor for I<Perl and
LWP>, and Sarah Sherman was the proofreader. Rachel Wheeler and Claire
Cloutier provided quality control. Johnna VanHoose Dinse wrote the
index. Emily Quill provided production support.

Emma Colby designed the cover of this book, based on a series design by
Edie Freedman. The cover image is a 19th-century engraving from the
Dover Pictorial Archive. Emma Colby produced the cover layout with
QuarkXPress 4.1 using Adobe's ITC Garamond font.

This colophon was written by Linley Dolby.

=over

Then Sean Burke did lots of HTML+CSS retooling, and
copy-reE<euml>diting, all these years later.

=back

=cut

#Pod::HTML2Pod conversion notes:
#From file colophon.htm
# 3000 bytes of input
#Sun Nov 11 18:10:09 2012 root
# No a_name switch not specified, so will not try to render <a name='...'>
# Will try to render <a href='...'>
# Untranslatable link: "./index.html"
# Untranslatable link: "navimgs/cover_lg.jpg"
# Untranslatable link: "index/index.html"
# Untranslatable link: "navimgs/cover_lg.jpg"
