=pod

^ Perl and LWP ^

=head1 Copyright statement for the online edition

This "1.1" edition of I<Perl and LWP> is available online under the
terms of the CreativeCommons (http://creativecommons.org/)
B<Attribution Share-Alike License>. You may view the friendly summary
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/) or the full license
text (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/legalcode).
Alternatively you can send a letter to Creative Commons, 559 Nathan
Abbott Way, Stanford, California 94305, USA and request a copy of the
Attribution Share-Alike License.

~BY~

B<Attribution>. The licensor permits others to copy, distribute,
display, and perform the work. In return, licensees must give the
original author credit.

~SHARE~

B<Share Alike>. The licensor permits others to distribute derivative
works only under a license identical to the one that governs the
licensor's work.

=head1 Copyright statement for the 2002 print edition

Copyright E<copy> 2002 O'Reilly & Associates, Inc. All rights reserved.

Printed in the United States of America.

Published by O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., 1005 Gravenstein Highway
North, Sebastopol, CA 95472.

O'Reilly & Associates books may be purchased for educational, business,
or sales promotional use. Online editions are also available for most
titles (http://safari.oreilly.com (http://safari.oreilly.com)). For
more information contact our corporate/institutional sales department:
800-998-9938 or I<corporate@oreilly.com>
(mailto:corporate@oreilly.com).

Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to
distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those
designations appear in this book, and O'Reilly & Associates, Inc. was
aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed in caps
or initial caps. The association between the image of blesbok and the
the topic of Perl and LWP is a trademark of O'Reilly & Associates, Inc.

While every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this book,
the publisher and the author assume no responsibility for errors or
omissions, or for damages resulting from the use of the information
contained herein.

=cut

#Pod::HTML2Pod conversion notes:
#From file copyrght.htm
# 3309 bytes of input
#Sun Nov 11 18:10:09 2012 root
# No a_name switch not specified, so will not try to render <a name='...'>
# Will try to render <a href='...'>
# Untranslatable link: "./index.html"
