=pod

^ Perl and LWP ^

=head1 Foreword

I<by Gisle Aas (http://gisle.aas.no/), Primary author and maintainer of
LWP>

I started playing around with the Web a long time agoE<mdash>at least,
it feels that way. The first versions of Mosaic had just showed up,
Gopher and Wais were still hot technology, and I discovered an HTTP
server program called Plexus. What was different was it was implemented
in Perl. That made it easy to extend. CGI was not invented yet, so all
we had were servlets (although we didn't call them that then). Over
time, I moved from hacking on the server side to the client side but
stayed with Perl as the programming language of choice. As a result, I
got involved in LWP, the Perl web client library.

A lot has happened to the web since then. These days there is almost no
end to the information at our fingertips: news, stock quotes, weather,
government info, shopping, discussion groups, product info, reviews,
games, and other entertainment. And the good news is that LWP can help
automate them all.

This book tells you how you can write your own useful web client
applications with LWP and its related HTML modules. Sean's done a great
job of showing how this powerful library can be used to make tools that
automate various tasks on the Web. If you are like me, you probably
have many examples of web forms that you find yourself filling out over
and over again. Why not write a simple LWP-based tool that does it all
for you? Or a tool that does research for you by collecting data from
many web pages without you having to spend a single mouse click? After
reading this book, you should be well prepared for tasks such as these.

This book's focus is to teach you how to write scripts against services
that are set up to serve traditional web browsers. This means services
exposed through HTML. Even in a world where people eventually have
discovered that the Web can provide real program-to-program interfaces
(the current "web services" craze), it is likely that HTML scraping
will continue to be a valuable way to extract information from the Web.
I strongly believe that Perl and LWP is one of the best tools to get
that job done. Reading Perl and LWP is a good way get you started.

It has been fun writing and maintaining the LWP codebase, and Sean's
written a fine book about using it. Enjoy!

=over

E<mdash>Gisle Aas (http://search.cpan.org/~gaas/)

Primary author and maintainer of LWP

=back

=cut

#Pod::HTML2Pod conversion notes:
#From file foreword.htm
# 3256 bytes of input
#Sun Nov 11 18:10:09 2012 root
# No a_name switch not specified, so will not try to render <a name='...'>
# Will try to render <a href='...'>
# Untranslatable link: "./index.html"
