=pod

^ Perl and LWP ^

=head1 Introduction to the 2007 online edition

In 2002, I (http://interglacial.com/) published the book I<Perl & LWP>
with O'Reilly (http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/perllwp), after about two
years of sporadic yet frenzied writing.

I was pleased to see that the book was was rather well received
(http://amazon.com/dp/0596001789), which is fancy publishing talk for
"people bought it and liked it."

But now, after five years, as the book has begun shimmying its way into
the long tail (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Long_Tail) (and/or onto
a dozen crappy Russian warez sites), I've decided to post the text of
the book online, along with occasional corrections and years-later
musings.

=over

The after-the-fact musings look like this, with this special fancy
formatting! Yay, CSS!

=back

Now, this isn't a "second edition" of the book, but it's a bit more
than just a "first edition with corrections". Let's just call it
"edition 1.1".

Although most of the example sites mentioned
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blade_Runner#Curse) in the book (for
example, Fresh Air's) have been totally redesigned
(http://foldoc.org/foldoc/foldoc.cgi?bit+rot) in these past five years,
that shouldn't at all affect your reading of the sections that discuss
them-- unless you are the odd reader that wants to run exactly that
sample code on exactly that site, in which case you are, indeed, an odd
reader.

In general, the material of the book is basically as relevant today
(2007 as I write this) as it was five years ago, and I myself still use
the LWP classes on a daily basis, as I scrape
(http://interglacial.com/rss/) and manipulate data in various ways. And
I'll also note that the newer technologies of AJAX (i.e.,
finally-it-works JavaScript (http://interglacial.com/hoj/)) are in many
ways so similar to LWP that knowing one makes it almost trivial to
learn the other (and usually, in the process, LWP comes out looking
saner, by the way).

Enjoy your read! If you want to thank me in some material form,
consider my Amazon wishlist
(http://www.amazon.com/gp/registry/wishlist/6VG380LA3B02/?sort=priority&layout=compact
), and note I'm just as delighted with used books as new. If you want
to read more of things I've written, then here's my book on RTF
(http://interglacial.com/rtf/) (including instructions on making an
origami CD case, and featuring dirty limericks in Latin); and here's a
book containing a fun bunch of articles that I wrote
(http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/tpj3/toc.html) for I<The Perl Journal>.
You can also read these things on O'Reilly's online book site, Safari
(http://safari.oreilly.com/).

=over

E<mdash>Sean M. Burke (http://interglacial.com/)

Ketchikan
(http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&q=Ketchikan,+Alaska&ie=UTF8&om=1&z=12&ll=55.347499,-131.726074&spn=0.09175,0.346069&t=k&iwloc=addr),
Alaska, 2007

=back

=cut

#Pod::HTML2Pod conversion notes:
#From file intro.htm
# 3952 bytes of input
#Sun Nov 11 18:10:09 2012 root
# No a_name switch not specified, so will not try to render <a name='...'>
# Will try to render <a href='...'>
# Untranslatable link: "./index.html"
# Untranslatable link: "lwpstyle.css"
# Untranslatable link: "ch09_05.htm"
